my name is
elle i am a
uh female to male to female d
transitioner i recently detransitioned
um probably like a little like a month
and a half ago
um and i've been actively
living transitioned back de-transitioned
into a woman for like two days now
my name is jack and i am a female to
male to female
d transitioner when you go into planned
parenthood um at least for me
i went in and i signed like a little
consent form they didn't really ask me
any questions and they took a blood draw
and then i scheduled to come back for
two weeks later after the lab results
had come in
and get my prescription that was it um
so my opinion first
on all of that um i mean it must be nice
to just be able to walk in
and finally you know just say hey i want
to start hormones now
and then just kind of kick that off um
although i will say that
i mean with the whole just giving
hormones to whoever walks in the door
i mean i don't think is necessarily a
good thing
imagine how many girls have felt
uncomfortable in their female bodies
before growing into them and becoming
strong confident women who are happy
with themselves this is how it used to
be before dysphoria was medicalized
before women were told they could become
men
medical professionals attributed my
dysphoria to an innate identity
the internet encouraged this my parents
didn't know how to respond
assuming that therapists and doctors
would know better than to let a
sixteen-year-old make the wrong
life-altering decisions i regret my
double mastectomy
more than i regret going on testosterone
like if i had gone on testosterone
and never had a double mastectomy i feel
like i could almost reverse all the
effects
because you know my voice will always be
deeper
and i'll always have the body hair but
at least i would have still
had my whole body but
parts of my body were cut off
and when i look at myself in the mirror
i feel mutilated
and i don't mean that to be um dramatic
that's just genuinely how i feel like
when i see myself naked it's like when i
look at myself from
the you know the rib cage down like the
belly button down
i feel like i look like a woman at least
mostly but when i look at
the rest of my body you know without my
wig on and without my makeup
and when i see my chest i
i do feel like i look mutilated or like
i feel like some kind of bad science
experiment
you know people ask me like do you
regret it
yes yes i regret it i think it's the
stupidest thing i've ever done in my
life
i got very active in the trans
communities
on reddit um on twitter
and spent most of my time online that
didn't do anything
in real life at all really i i didn't
have any friends i didn't go to school
at that point so the only people i
really talked to on a daily basis were
the people that i talked to online
and that definitely didn't help
um that didn't i i just i
i was basically consumed by trans media
online trans content online so
uh about a year later i started
testosterone and um
i was 16. i
had been going to a therapist who tried
to tell me that
she didn't want me to transition then i
went to a therapist from the lgbt center
who told me
that she was ready to get me on hormones
from day one i was able to have a double
mastectomy because
i had one appointment with a therapist
who
diagnosed me with gender dysphoria
i saw him one time i believe i was 16
years old i
could have been 15 but i'm pretty sure i
was 16. i don't know
we must have talked for only like 45
minutes or something like that
and he diagnosed me with severe
depression i still have like the
diagnosed paper severe depression severe
anxiety
and gender dysphoria and
um that was a piece of paper that
allowed me to go on testosterone
and that was a piece of paper that
allowed me to have a double mastectomy
at
19 years old 18 years old i mean like
when you go to the doctor
and you want to get like a medication
for something
they don't just give it to you you know
like they want to make sure that you're
taking the right thing
to help your specific needs um
so with planned parenthood just kind of
willy-nilly
you know just almost handing out
hormones like candy to
anybody who walks in the door you know
regardless if you're actually
transgender or not or just confused or
whatnot
um i mean i feel is almost almost
disrespectful to people who are actually
transgender
um i mean like when you look like
they're trained medical professionals
i mean shouldn't they be asking you more
questions and like taking more
care to give you what you actually need
um i mean that can't be good for tran
the transgender community in general
anyways
i mean because just i mean when you're
just handing out hormones to anybody who
wants them
i mean you're bound to be giving it to
somebody who shouldn't be taking
hormones like myself or somebody else
who detransitioned
i mean the more people you just hand it
out to i mean that's just going to be
more detransitioners down the line
somebody quoted my tweet and said to any
women out there
how did you feel about your body when
you were 14 were you comfortable in it
why are we encouraging teen girls to
believe their bodies are wrong
somebody says very uncomfortable in my
own skin hated my periods wanted to be a
boy because they didn't have to go
through that every month
very happy to be a woman now hating your
period
is such a universal female experience
that is
not talked about women have been feeling
like this
since the beginning of time i feel like
i feel like teenage girls especially
like in this generation are being told
that
they can opt out of this of all of this
womanhood
of expectations of society looking a
certain way
you can just opt out by changing the way
that you identify
there are so many young teen girls right
now
who are identifying as men because
of this so many young women who
don't want attention from men who don't
want to deal with
growing into an adult woman because of
everything that you're told that means
you can just say no i'm not a woman i'm
a guy
i had the surgery well actually let me
back up i had a consultation
um and my mom drove me to the
consultation and i probably saw
the surgeon for maybe 10 or 15 minutes
basically what happened was he walked in
my shirt was off it was extremely
uncomfortable
he touched my breast he looked at my
breasts we took photos like one facing
to the side one facing to the front
and then he was like okay we're good and
i didn't see him again i just saw the
nurses and anesthesiologists
and they rolled me back and put me under
and when i woke up my breast was gone
um and i remember waking up
and being
in extreme pain the feelings
of dysphoria were never there until i
started having sex with a woman
and i think that should have been a big
red flag
for me but i just didn't know i wasn't
aware of what
the criteria that should be meant for
someone to be considered transgender
and so when
i came out to my mom she was like well
are you sure and i was like yeah even
though
i don't think i was sure i'm remembering
in bed being like well am i sure
i wasn't um but i was so stubborn such a
stubborn person that
once i had decided on something like
once i decided i am trans
i was like well there's no going back
and this is what we're doing now but the
thing was like i couldn't
reach for a plate in the cabinet to feed
myself
without the pain or like it was really
hard for me to take a shower by myself
like i really needed someone to help me
and for a little while like they were
willing to help me but then after some
time
you know maybe like the first week it
kind of seemed like they were really
irritated so i had a really really
difficult time and i was out of work for
six weeks
and i could only sleep on my back
and i remember not
feeling anything i did not feel happy
about having a double mastectomy like
i don't want to say i felt sad about it
but it was more like i didn't feel
anything eventually i went back to work
but
i was still experiencing like a lot of
pain and i was having i basically went
immediately back to doing all this
physical work
because my job was basically like to
throw stuff around
and it would hurt me so
much like i would pick up these 50 pound
boxes and like throw these bags of
potatoes and stuff
and i would just be in so much pain like
there was a few times where
there was like a center island in the
middle of the grocery store where i'd be
with some of my co-workers it'd be like
trimming vegetables or something
and i would just be like keeled over on
the floor in pain
like i'm not a crier but i was like on
the verge of tears because i was like
hurting so much and my coworker was like
are you okay like what can i do like
they like didn't know what to do and i
was like i'm really sorry like i just
had reconstructive surgery like
i just need a minute and i would just be
literally huddled in a ball on a
concrete floor
at my job and i mean i think that as a
doctor or some
like people who are like trained medical
professionals i mean you should be
asking more questions instead of just
having you walk in
be like hey i'm transgender i want to
take these and then then just like here
take your prescription and get out
and he's like we got our money and it it
makes me angry for myself and it also
makes me angry
for other people because the people who
have reached out to me especially
privately
and told me about their regrets
regarding surgery whether that be
a mastectomy or any type of top surgery
or hysterectomy or basically like any
uh sex reassignment surgery or cross sex
hormones like
it made me a lot more upset than i
thought it would and not in like a
sadness type of way but like
a very angry type of way like it made me
really mad
that this has happened to other people
and doctors were just like yeah i'll
take your money and i'll take out your
organs
but i mean i mean of course hindsight
because i mean back when i wanted to
take hormones i mean
i thought planned parenthood oh my god
this is like a godsend i mean i don't
have to go
because i didn't want to talk to a
therapist um
i mean so i don't have to jump through
any hubs i don't have to do anything
um i just walked in and got it and yes
that's on me for not knowing what i
wanted to do
but i also feel like if it wasn't just
as easy as just walking in and signing a
form
for something that permanently changes
your body
for essentially the rest of your life
and in some aspects
um i think like if it wouldn't have been
so easy for me to just walk in
i don't think i probably would have
transitioned because i think
the longer i would have thought about it
and given it more time to think
and con given it more consideration i
think i think it may have played
a pact or a part and may have influenced
me transitioning at all um if it just
wasn't so easy just a willy nilly on
impulse just go and decide to take
hormones
there is a currently popular catchphrase
in politics
and i'm concerned that it's going to
become a
thought-terminating cliche especially
but not only
on the left-wing end of the political
spectrum the catchphrase i hear again
and again is
in reference to police reform
police misconduct police violence
that we should only listen to the voices
of
african americans in reference to
transgender people
that we should only listen to and
believe the voices of
trans men and trans women themselves
this is fundamentally incompatible
not just with the concept of
deliberative democracy
it's also fundamentally incompatible
with the concept of
research itself
in cambodia many decades ago there were
violent calamitous disastrous events
that today some people call the
cambodian genocide
some people might call it the cambodian
holocaust or the cambodian civil war the
cambodian famine
you could say a little bit more
neutrally
the cambodian revolution
do you think we should only trust
and we should only listen to the voices
of cambodians
about what happened and why
and that's an easy question because
we're talking about something happened
decades ago when i was a small child
basically
before many of you were born what about
the current
political situation in cambodia
do you think we should only ask
cambodians do you think there's some
unique value in the perspective
of a detached outsider in evaluating
what went wrong in cambodia before
decades ago and what's going wrong
now i would be the first person to admit
there are some aspects of cambodian
culture
in cambodian politics even cambodian
economics
that only an insider can understand that
would be incomprehensible
or even invisible to an outsider to a
detached observer an analyst
from a foreign culture like myself but
there are other aspects
that are invisible to people within that
culture
and immediately seem very important to
an outsider give give a
really quick example you know in the
years leading up to
the cambodian revolution the level of
violence
that was normal in that culture was
shocking and abhorrent
not just to europeans who visited
cambodia but like to chinese people and
japanese people
also like people came from other parts
of asia to cambodia
they still had the equivalent of
gladiatorial games
of men fighting to the death for the
entertainment of the crowd
not exactly the same as in ancient rome
but nevertheless with their own weapons
with their own tradition
there are levels of violence and uh
executing and killing people for
incredibly minor infractions what was
considered normal
um acts of cannibalism on the
battlefield cutting open your enemy and
eating an organ from their body
yes on the one hand cambodia was
a buddhist culture committed to taravata
buddhism a
religion of total non-violence a
religion in which it's actually
it's contrary to the religion even to
kill a fly or to kill a mosquito
on the other hand this was a shockingly
unbelievably violent culture
and someone who lived in that culture
during those generations
they would regard those things as normal
oh yeah they go and watch the
gladiatorial games right these things
when you grow up within a culture
that won't really stand out to you in
quite that way and in this same
way an outsider can look at how the
ideas of marxism and communism
went from germany to russia from russia
to china
from china to cambodia there's an
analytical perspective of an outsider
that really matters and you know what
the truth is it doesn't
invalidate the perspective of cultural
insiders it doesn't invalidate
the perspective of cambodians themselves
it enriches it
right both are necessary but we've just
talked about the
easy part we've just talked about
research
the other side of this question is
deliberative democracy
if you want to bring about police reform
reform to the way the police operate in
the united states canada australia
france england that is not a decision
for black people to make a loan
that is not a decision only for the
victims
of police brutality to make alone which
are obviously a tiny minority of the
black community
and also there's a tiny minority of the
white chinese
first nations american indian there are
if you could just gather together
if you just gathered together every
person who had proven in court
that they were the victim of police
brutality or police harassment i don't
know how many
thousands or tens of thousands you get
but then you'd have a very small
minority
and guess what they shouldn't make the
decision they shouldn't write the
legislation either
if you actually believe in research
i know it sounds ridiculous to say but
this is a real question do you think
that research could reveal facts yes or
no
do you think that a researcher could
discover something
that a native born cambodian themselves
might not know might not appreciate
do you think a researcher can discover
something that a
transgender person might not know or
might not see the significance of
if you don't if you think research just
doesn't exist
if you think it's like the tooth fairy
that would be a very different view
on some level to some extent everyone in
this audience believes in research you
just might not have thought through
the implications because a researcher is
not qualified to do that research by
being cambodian
a researcher is not qualified to do that
research because they're black
they're not qualified to do the research
because they themselves are a victim of
police brutality or police misconduct
right you're qualified to be a
researcher
precisely by having the detached
outsiders
perspective having the integrity the
commitment to the truth and so on
that being a researcher entails and
again i can sympathize
but obviously if you are yourself
personally the victim of police
brutality the police kicked in the door
of your house
and killed one of your children or
killed your husband or wife
nobody expects you to have the detached
perspective of a researcher
right and nobody expects you
to write the legislation to come up with
a new plan for what is the best decision
not just for the police and not just for
the victims and not just for
black people but for all of us as a
society
right so there's a certain set of
beliefs
that include beliefs about
research in terms of what
deliberative democracy means not just in
its
process but in its outcomes that we
all of us in theory if you really
believe in democracy it would be all of
us
if you believe in aristocracy it would
just be some of us who get to have an
opinion
but all of us get to put
our salt our seasoning in the pot
and stir it up and try to come up with
the best
policy for all of us to live together in
one of the same society
under one in the same set of laws
if you really think it's inappropriate
for a detached outsider to have a
perspective on
and to be advocating new laws
and new policies on the hormone
replacing
therapy the drugs given to transgender
people
riddle me this do you think that only
professional athletes should be allowed
to vote
on whether or not they get to use
exogenous testosterone steroids
or other performance-enhancing drugs
do you think there's a decision to be
made there that's not just
what would be convenient for the
athletes themselves
athletes who want to win in their sport
they may want to look beautiful
not all the maybe athletes some people
may be using steroids because they want
to be in pornography they want to be
models they want to be actors they want
to be in the movies
right those people they may make one
decision what's good for them
right but you and i right now if you
believe in deliberative democracy if you
believe in research
there's the possibility that we might
know something we might learn something
through investigation
where we have to make a decision as for
what's best
for all of us as a society
moving forward i mean really people like
to disrespect my crew but the fact is
that you know my name and i don't know
you